.. XXX update on release :Publish Date: YYYY-MM-DD

Release 2021_002 (unreleased)
-----------------------------

20.09 is our default platform version starting with this release.
New VMs will be created with 20.09. We are aiming to upgrade all non-production VMs
currently on 19.03 in the next weeks.

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 20.09]: PostgreSQL and RabbitMQ will be restarted.
* [NixOS 20.09]: Gitlab and associated services will be restarted.
  Git and frontend access will be unavailable for some minutes.
* [NixOS 20.09]: VMs will be rebooted for a kernel update.


NixOS 20.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* PostgreSQL: Use Postgis 2.5 for versions before 12 to make upgrades from 19.03 easier.
  Postgres 12 is unaffected because it already used Postgis 3.0 on 19.03 (#PL-129602).
* Nginx: switch mod_security to newest stable branch using a new nginx module
  that should also be more stable (#PL-129571).
* Update Gitlab to 13.6.5 (#PL-129597).
* Merge upstream NixOS updates, including: Grafana 7.3.7, Linux 5.4.89.
* Use :file:`/run/next-system/result` instead of :file:`/result` for the link to the
  prepared system update and delete it after a successful maintenance run (#PL-129591).
* Kubernetes: add FC nameservers to :file:`resolv.conf` on VMs with a Kubernetes
  role as fallback when CoreDNS is down (#PL-129590).
* Nginx: set reuseport for default vhosts in structured vhost config and recommend
  to use it in plain config files. Avoids failures on config reload when listen
  statements are incompatible with the previous config.
  This caused situations where Nginx had to be fully restarted to activate new
  config which means that connections are dropped (#PL-129589).
* Port sensuserver role, update sensu-core and uchiwa to latest versions
  (internal VM monitoring) (#PL-129505).
* RabbitMQ now notifies SystemD on startup when it's ready (#PL-129505).


NixOS 19.03 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 15.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Gentoo platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet

Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 20.09: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_001/20.09...1761c6b2e07cd1c5403044825e2dcd1dec1ee29b>`_,
  `upstream changes <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/nixpkgs/compare/7179961331b1e98dd28f07dbcb46ed700ad6a52b..984c872d5ca6e521803a4cd9ba72d45c4c3640a6>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
