.. XXX update on release :Publish Date: YYYY-MM-DD

Release 2021_014 (unreleased)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 20.09] LAMP-based services will be restarted.
* [NixOS 20.09] Gitlab will be restarted and unavailable for some minutes.


NixOS 20.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* fc-agent: pre-build updates which are scheduled to run in a maintenance window.
  Stopped/started/restarted/reloaded services are now reported correctly in maintenance mails and the UI.
  This also helps to find build errors earlier (#PL-120275).
* fc-agent: add a notice to the maintenance annoncement when kernel updates will schedule a VM reboot.
  Estimated time for an update is increased to 10 minutes because some services may take minutes to restart (#PL-129798).
* Vagrant: Set mode for service user dirs (:file:`/srv/s-*`) to 755 like on a regular VM (#PL-129791).
* Gitlab: update to 13.8.8 security release (#PL-129795).
* Major improvements of our LAMP role (#PL-129755).

  * We now provide PHP 5.6 (legacy), 7.3 (default) and PHP 7.4 (optional)
  * Tideways integration is automatically enabled/disabled if an API key is provided.
  * We are switching from mpm_event to mpm_prefork as we have seen too many issues with threading and rather prefer a stable service.
  * We added more test coverage to ensure future stability.
  * Added BCMath as a default extension.


NixOS 19.03 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 15.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Gentoo platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet

Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
