:Publish Date: 2021-09-13

Release 2021_030 (2021-09-13)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 21.05] sshd will be restarted.


NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* webgateway: update haproxy to 2.3.14 for a critical security fix (CVE-2021-40346) (#PL-130098).
* Use OpenSSH 8.7 for ssh/sshd. This fixes frequent sshd crashes caused by
  malicious connection attempts that fail. This update has potentially
  imcompatible changes that won't affect common use of ssh.
  See https://www.openssh.com/releasenotes.html for details (#PL-130095).
* Mailserver: fix building the example config if there's no config file, yet.
  Already released as hotfix (#PL-130086).
* fc-agent: various logging fixes and improvements. Nix build errors are now
  easier to find in the journal and Graylog (#PL-130088).
* journalbeat: add option flyingcircus.journalbeat.fields.
  This is used by default to add VM metadata to log messages that are sent out
  to loghosts/Graylog (#PL-130085).
* jornalbeat: add VM resources info (cores, disk, iops, memory) to log messages (#PL-130097).
* fc-agent and fc-garbage-collect: apply CPU/IO limitations and low priority
  settings via SystemD units to avoid load peaks and resulting alerts.
  This is often caused by iowait on HDD VMs.
  We tried to limit the impact before by using ionice and by limiting the
  amount of collected garbage but we still had problems on mostly idle
  machines or when agent and garbage collection ran at the same time (#PL-130083).
* Ignore "other error" count on drives controlled by MegaRAID controllers to
  reduce monitoring noise (#PL-130057).
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/102499/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

NixOS 20.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* webgateway: update haproxy to 2.2.17 for a critical security fix (CVE-2021-40346) (#PL-130098).
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/102556/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz


Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_029/21.05...6fb54ba0c73b58c7cfd3836815ab64bae214d929>`_,
* NixOS 20.09: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_028/20.09...680e3ad396db57bc132273937505ef89308cf100>`_,


.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
