.. XXX update on release :Publish Date: YYYY-MM-DD

Release 2021_031 (unreleased)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 21.05] Most services will be restarted to a core dependency change.
  VMs will schedule a reboot to activate the changed kernel.


NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Webgateway docs: document Nix as the recommended configuration method for Nginx.
  An example NixOS module for that can be found at :file:`/etc/local/nixos/nginx.nix.example` (#PL-129629).
* Mysql/Percona: make *xtrabackup* available with a version matching the running server.
  :command:`xtrabackup` can be run by service users with sudo now (#PL-129826).
* Merge upstream NixOS changes that include security fixes and other updates (#PL-130108):

    * apacheHttpd: 2.4.48 -> 2.4.49 (CVE-2021-33193, CVE-2021-34798,
      CVE-2021-36160, CVE-2021-39275, CVE-2021-40438)
    * element-web: 1.8.2 -> 1.8.5
    * github-runner: 2.279.0 -> 2.282.0
    * glibc: 2.32-48 2.32-54
    * go_1_16: 1.16.7 -> 1.16.8
    * imagemagick: 7.1.0-5 -> 7.1.0-6
    * linux: 5.10.60 -> 5.10.67
    * matrix-synapse: 1.42.0 -> 1.43.0
    * nss: 3.68 -> 3.70
    * nodejs: 12.22.4 -> 12.22.6, 14.17.4 -> 14.17.6, 16.4.1 -> 16.8.0
    * openssl: 1.1.1k -> 1.1.1l
    * php74: 7.4.21 -> 7.4.23
    * postgresql_10: 10.17 -> 10.18
    * postgresql_11: 11.12 -> 11.13
    * postgresql_12: 12.7 -> 12.8
    * postgresql_13: 13.3 -> 13.4
    * postgresql_9_6: 9.6.22 -> 9.6.23
    * python: 3.8.9 -> 3.8.11, 3.6.13 -> 3.6.14, 3.7.10 -> 3.7.11, 3.9.4 -> 3.9.6
    * rPackages.RMySQL: fix package
    * wget: 1.21.1 -> 1.21.2 (CVE-2021-31879)
    * wireguard-tools: 1.0.20210424 -> 1.0.20210914

* Jitsi: update *jitsi-videobridge*, *jicofo* and *jitsi-meet* to latest stable versions.
  End-to-end encryption works with these versions now (#PL-130110).
* Provide a basic reusable wireguard installation and always generate one key pair
  with appropriate permissions (#PL-130025).
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/103566/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz


NixOS 20.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 19.03 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 15.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Gentoo platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_030/21.05...8b3d92fc2ef4a512a6399447333f03d95cdc4acd>`_,
  `upstream changes <https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/compare/74d017edb6717ad76d38edc02ad3210d4ad66b96...83413f47809790e4ca012e314e7782adeae36cf2>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
