.. XXX update on release :Publish Date: YYYY-MM-DD

Release 2021_032 (unreleased)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Nginx: fix a conditional reload bug. The internal status page and vhosts using
  the default wildcard address were not properly configured for dual stack operations
  and may block graceful reloads.
* Nginx: add option ``services.nginx.masterUser`` to be able to change the user
  for the Nginx master process. Nothing changes if you are using the platform
  `webgateway` / `nginx` roles or the `flyingcircus.services.nginx` service.
  They still use `root` and run the worker processes as `nginx`.
  Plain `services.nginx` now uses `nginx` for both by default like the upstream
  NixOS module.
  Note that changing this setting is experimental when using our platform roles/service
  and problems may occur, especially if Nginx has already been running on the
  system (#PL-130015).
* Nginx: don't generate dhparam file by default anymore. Existing dhparam files
  will be removed. This file is only needed for DHE ciphers which are not used
  except by legacy clients like IE11 on older Windows versions.
  See the webgateway docs or :file:`/etc/local/nginx/README.txt` on how to keep
  or re-enable the old behavior if needed. (#PL-130114).

NixOS 20.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 19.03 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 15.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Gentoo platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* SSH: use secure key exchange algorithms, ciphers and MACs like on our NixOS platforms (#141842).


Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
