:Publish Date: 2021-11-29

Release 2021_038 (2021-11-29)
-----------------------------

NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We can now provision custom NixOS configuration for all machines per customer,
  resource group, and individually for each machine through our configuration
  database (#PL-129625).
* Monitor size of netfilter connection tracking table (conntrack) and increase
  size limit (#PL-130189).
* fc-agent: improve error handling: extract Nix builder errors properly for logging,
  fix problem that sometimes caused the loss of lines of command output at the end.
  (#PL-130214).
* Varnish: fix metrics relabeling rules so metrics don't contain a partial nix
  store path anymore (#PL-120471).
* Matrix: update synapse to 1.47.1 to fix a security issue (CVE-2021-41281) (#PL-130224).
* Add option to enable the kernel audit system and automatically log information
  about all started processes as well as interactions on TTYs to our centralized
  logging infrastructure. This feature may become mandatory in the future (#PL-129625).
* Extend the mechanism that writes a `htpasswd` file for users with `login`
  permission to provide a `htpasswd` file for each permission within the
  resource group (:file:`/etc/local/htpasswd_fcio_users.*`).
* Limit access to the Kubernetes dashboard to users with the `sudo-srv` permission.
* Allow service users to use dev containers.
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/116563/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_037/21.05...d34e1da62c69380c350a81527af6a7bb48b77b52>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
