:Publish Date: 2021-12-06

Release 2021_039 (2021-12-06)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 21.05] Most services will be restarted.
  VMs will schedule a reboot to activate the new kernel version.


NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* MySQL: rotate slow log when file size is greater than 2GB and compress,
  at least once a week (#PL-130221).
* OpenVPN: client example config is now accessible for users with `login` permissions.
* Kubernetes: replace old implementation based on NixOS k8s support with a
  k3s-based solution which is easier to manage and has some improvements like
  proper support for services of type LoadBalancer, a local path provisioner and
  pre-installed helm for package management, a metrics-server, and traefik for ingress.
  The roles k3s-server and k3s-agent replace kubernetes-master and kubernetes-node,
  respectively.
  The kubernetes-frontend role was removed, webgateway now automatically
  activates Kubernetes support when it's running in a project with a k3s-server.
  The k3s roles are currently in beta state.
  Documentation has been updated to reflect the changes and give more frontend
  configuration examples (#PL-130215).
* kubernetes/k3s: speed up kubectl startup by using a separate binary
  instead of aliasing `k3s kubectl` (#PL-130240).
* Gitlab: upgrade to 14.4.1. The upgrade was already rolled out manually
  before this release (#PL-130156).
* devhost: various improvements (#PL-129841):

  * Use platform default timezone "Europe/Berlin" as default for containers, too.
  * Fix use of NFS roles (single container only).
  * Start dev containers automatically when the devhost ist rebooted.
  * Properly handle disabled containers for startup and with existing nginx configurations.

* Pull upstream NixOS changes that include security fixes and other updates (#PL-130230):

    * gd: 2.3.0 -> 2.3.2, add patch for partial CVE-2021-40812 fix
    * go_1_17: 1.17.2 -> 1.17.3
    * imagemagick: 7.1.0-9 -> 7.1.0-13
    * linux: 5.10.79 -> 5.10.81
    * nginxStable: 1.20.1 -> 1.20.2
    * openssh: Fix CVE-2021-41617
    * php74: 7.4.25 -> 7.4.26 (CVE-2021-21707)
    * php80: 8.0.12 -> 8.0.13 (CVE-2021-21707)
    * vim: 8.2.2567 -> 8.2.3451

* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/118848/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz


Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_038/21.05...dfcdd3b9806f4c56785afab206ffcf7ac58a76f2>`_,
  `upstream changes <https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/compare/195d5816cddc056e07fd2aa3fe81ee6e3f9d96e2...2553aee74fed8c2205a4aeb3ffd206ca14ede60f>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
