:Publish Date: 2021-12-16

Release 2021_040 (2021-12-16)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 21.05] Postgresql, Elasticsearch and Grafana will be restarted.
* [NixOS 21.05] Jitsi will be restarted and running conferences will be interrupted for some seconds.
* [NixOS 20.09] Elasticsearch will be restarted.


NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* [hotfix] graylog: update to 3.3.15 which contains the log4j2 fix for CVE-2021-44228.
  Systems using Graylog are already protected by the `"-Dlog4j2.formatMsgNoLookups=true"`
  setting we have rolled out (#PL-130250).
* Improve backup restore utilities to allow restore operations while backups
  are running (#PL-129786).
* Improve backup restore utilities memory usage to allow single file restore
  working on extremely large multi-terabyte volumes (#PL-130044).
* Jitsi: update package versions to latest stable release and tune video
  stream settings to improve quality and stability.
  Add an option to activate the pre-join page which allows users to check
  their audio/video and change settings before the conference starts (#PL-130249).
* Elasticsearch: fix log4j2 CVE-2021-44228 by setting `-Dlog4j2.formatMsgNoLookups=true`.
  Without this, Elasticsearch is susceptible to a minor information leak about
  the system environment.
  Remote code execution was never possible via Elasticsearch (#PL-130251).
* Pull upstream NixOS changes that include security fixes and other
  updates (#PL-130255):

    * nss: 3.64 -> 3.68.1
    * nss_latest: 3.71 -> 3.73
    * nspr: 4.30 -> 4.32
    * strace: 5.14 -> 5.15
    * grafana: 7.5.11 -> 7.5.12 (CVE-2021-43813)

* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/121678/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

NixOS 20.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Elasticsearch: fix log4j2 CVE-2021-44228 by setting `-Dlog4j2.formatMsgNoLookups=true`.
  Without this, Elasticsearch is susceptible to a minor information leak about
  the system environment.
  Remote code execution was never possible via Elasticsearch (#PL-130251).
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/121594/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz


Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_039/21.05...c755ec59689b3438bc7dfbcfcc273d5016c10bf8>`_,
  `upstream changes <https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/compare/2553aee74fed8c2205a4aeb3ffd206ca14ede60f...c5f1ee982246d09ae7f119c13aafcce90286221d>`_
* NixOS 20.09: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_030/20.09...3e7b6b1855c16f56fb6e9e4b81a1d8a6c4320bfb>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
