:Publish Date: 2020-08-15

Release 2020_025 (2020-08-15)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* Multiple service restarts are expected due to changed deep link dependencies
  caused by security updates.


NixOS 19.03 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Add logging syslog and journal to centralized loghosts for improved
  platform-wide analysis and security (#126523).

* Improve map file configuration mechanism for Postfix to more flexibly support 
  different requirements to provide dynamic map data from configs and
  applications. (#126884)

* Prebuild wkhtmltopdf on Hydra to avoid expensive local compilation (#127964).

* Improve robustness of fc-userscan, the garbage collection scanner. It doesn't
  stop on unreadable files now. Also fix setuid-root invocation: GC roots and
  cache files are opened with dropped privileges (#124165).

* Security updates for 

	* Python 2.7 (patch against CVE-2019-20907),
	* Ruby (2.5.7 -> 2.5.8, 2.6.5 -> 2.6.6),
	* libarchive (3.3.3 -> 3.4.2),
	* pcre2 (10.32 -> 10.34),
	* screen (4.6.2 -> 4.8.0).

* Fix Python package overrides in our overlay.

* Fix mailstub usage in Vagrant. (#127577)

* Disable automatic version checks for Graylog to avoid superfluous
  alerts.


NixOS 15.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Add logging syslog and journal to centralized loghosts for improved
  platform-wide analysis and security (#126523).


Gentoo platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Make firewalls more specific to limit NRPE outside access to 
  cross location checks from known addresses. (#124651)

* Add logging syslog and journal to centralized loghosts for improved
  platform-wide analysis and security (#126523).



.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
