---
Publish Date: 'YYYY-MM-DD'
---

# Release 2024_009 (unreleased)

## Impact

- \[NixOS 23.11] Gitlab and `phpfpm-*` services (including Matomo) will be
  restarted.

## NixOS 23.11 platform

- agent: check free disk space before preparing a system update. At least the
  size of the current system plus a fixed value must be available. A Sensu
  check warns before the limit is reached and becomes critical if updates
  cannot run anymore. The default fixed value of 5 GiB can be configured
  using the `flyingcircus.agent.diskKeepFree` option (PL-131859).
- **docker**: the firewall should now continue to function properly after the
  Docker role is removed (PL-131699).
- **gitlab** security update (PL-132277):
  - gitlab: 16.7.6 -> 16.7.7 (CVE-2024-0199, CVE-2024-1299)
  - gitlab-container-registry: 3.88.1 -> 3.90.0
- **lamp**: ensure read access to `/var/log/httpd/*` files for users from sudo-srv and
  services groups (PL-131938).
- **opensearch**: check cluster redundancy before running automated
  maintenance activities to avoid an impact on availability. The cluster
  must be in state *green* and other nodes must not be in maintenance at
  the same time (PL-132247).
- Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/390433/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

## NixOS 23.05 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 22.11 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 22.05 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 21.11 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 21.05 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 20.09 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 15.09 platform

- nothing yet

## Gentoo platform

- nothing yet

## Documentation

- nothing yet

## Detailed Changes

- NixOS 23.11: [platform code](https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2024_008/23.11...b6d4fe6429a1a3c0c616cc8b948c8bce2e8cf62d),
 [nixpkgs/upstream changes](https://github.com/flyingcircusio/nixpkgs/compare/5857afb599983e1fbbbc0c5237ee64492f911df4...223066281ca570f5be77d351df0d880d21bcc9de)

% vim: set spell spelllang=en:

