.. XXX update on release :Publish Date: YYYY-MM-DD

Release 2016_017 (unreleased)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* We do not expect any noticable impact.

NixOS platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Generously increase file and process limit for MongoDB.

* Fix swap file usage in Vagrant base images. (#21522)

* Provide a simplified and more useful version of the
  ``local.nix`` template on new nodes.

* Provide role to enable the `datadog <https://www.datadoghq.com>`_ agent
  and support custom configuration.

* Switch bootstrapping to Ceph cloning to further speed up creation of new
  VMs.

Gentoo platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Update pnp4nagios to fix compatibility with PHP 5.6+. This caused
  performance graphs accessible through Nagios to only display error
  messages. (#21768)

* Update box to fix compatibility with new automounter setup which
  uses a symlink and did not work due to security measures to avoid
  setuid privilege escalations. (#21202)

* Security update for rsync `GLSA 201605-04
  <https://glsa.gentoo.org/glsa/201605-04>`_ (#21743).

* Activate mysqli extension for PHP (#21574)

* Clean unused Apache config.

* Apply our low-level fixing mechanism optimistically during system
  updates to give a chance to puppet fixing things.

* Ensure eselect-based activation of ruby profile if rubygems was
  installed out of order and not appearing after a bootstrap.

* Update Ceph to 0.94.7. This is a bugfix release and has no major impact
  apart from slowly restarting OSDs which has no noticable impact any
  longer.

* Added configuration for SSD-based Ceph pools. (This was pre-released
  already.)

* Enable periodic gratuitous ARP messages on our routers to help VMs that
  miss a packet during router failover to quickly catch up. (#21681)

Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


References
^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS source:
  https://github.com/flyingcircusio/nixpkgs/commit/{TBA}

* Puppet source:
  https://bitbucket.org/flyingcircus/fc.platform/commits/{TBA}

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
