---
Publish Date: '2016-06-03'
---

# Release 2016_017 (2016-06-03)

## Impact

- We do not expect any noticable impact.

## NixOS platform

- Generously increase file and process limit for MongoDB.
- Fix swap file usage in Vagrant base images. (#21522)
- Provide a simplified and more useful version of the
  `local.nix` template on new nodes.
- Provide role to enable the [datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com) agent
  and support custom configuration.
- Switch bootstrapping to Ceph cloning to further speed up creation of new
  VMs.
- Password authentication was accidentally enabled for SSHD and is disabled
  again.
- Machines automatically get a local SSMTP configuration that uses a resource
  group's mail server if it exists.
- Add `mc` to the default package list.
- Install `innotop` on MySQL servers.

## Gentoo platform

- Update pnp4nagios to fix compatibility with PHP 5.6+. This caused
  performance graphs accessible through Nagios to only display error
  messages. (#21768)
- Update box to fix compatibility with new automounter setup which
  uses a symlink and did not work due to security measures to avoid
  setuid privilege escalations. (#21202)
- Security update for rsync [GLSA 201605-04](https://glsa.gentoo.org/glsa/201605-04) (#21743).
- Activate mysqli extension for PHP (#21574)
- Clean unused Apache config.
- Apply our low-level fixing mechanism optimistically during system
  updates to give a chance to puppet fixing things.
- Ensure eselect-based activation of ruby profile if rubygems was
  installed out of order and not appearing after a bootstrap.
- Update Ceph to 0.94.7. This is a bugfix release and has no major impact
  apart from slowly restarting OSDs which has no noticable impact any
  longer.
- Added configuration for SSD-based Ceph pools. (This was pre-released
  already.)
- Enable periodic gratuitous ARP messages on our routers to help VMs that
  miss a packet during router failover to quickly catch up. (#21681)

## References

- NixOS source:
  <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/nixpkgs/commit>/\{TBA}
- Puppet source:
  <https://bitbucket.org/flyingcircus/fc.platform/commits>/\{TBA}

% vim: set spell spelllang=en:
