---
Publish Date: '2023-01-30'
---

# Release 2023_002 (2023-01-30)

## NixOS 22.05 platform

- Prevent *fc-collect-garbage* and system rebuilds by *fc-manage* from running
  at the same time which caused Nix store corruption breaking *fc-manage* in
  rare cases which had to be fixed by manual Nix store repairs.

  As a side effect of the changes, *service* and *sudo-srv* users can now run
  {command}`sudo fc-collect-garbage` to clean up unneeded paths from the Nix
  store with full speed, in contrast to the *fc-collection-garbage.service*
  which runs throttled and may take a long time. This is helpful for
  situations when disk space is critically low.

  The garbage collector now keeps build-only Nix dependencies until
  the dependent packages are collected which also helps to reduce the risk of
  Nix store corruption and also reduces IO stress.

  We have seen issues with files missing from the Nix store that
  are still expected to be there, breaking fc-manage until the corruption is
  fixed manually. We have also seen a Nix store path that got
  garbage-collected partially in one case. These are probably problems in Nix
  which have to be addressed upstream but our changes are expected to prevent
  that in the meantime (#PL-131232).

- **fc-userscan**: fix directory path excludes and add *zsh* + *bash* shell
  history files, `.viminfo` and internal Nix directories to the exclude file.
  This avoids keeping around packages that are not used anymore. Please
  review the list of excluded directories in the improved
  {external+platform-current:ref}`nixos-gc-fc-userscan` documentation.
  (#PL-130486).
- Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/225011/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz


## Detailed Changes

- NixOS 22.05: [platform code](https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2023_001/22.05...6db6af608332a334fdd039a7c0ece399f8820bbf)

% vim: set spell spelllang=en:
