---
Publish Date: 'YYYY-MM-DD'
---

# Release 2023_005 (unreleased)

## Impact

- nothing yet


## NixOS 22.11 platform

Our platform version based on NixOS 22.11 is now ready for testing on non-production
systems. From now on, the environment fc-22.11-staging can be used for upgrading machines.

We will roll out the upgrade for most of the customer staging systems on Tuesday, 2023-03-07.

### Significant breaking changes

- nginx: now uses the *nginx* user to run the master process. This may cause
  problems when certificates are read from arbitrary directories, for example
  deployments. Normally, the built-in support for Letsencrypt should be used
  instead to avoid permission problems and make sure that certificates are
  rotated automatically. If using external certificates cannot be avoided,
  make sure that permissions allow read access for the *nginx* user, for
  example by applying `setfacl -Rm u:nginx:rX` to the certificate directory.
- Deprecated settings `logrotate.paths` and `logrotate.extraConfig` have been
  removed. Please convert any uses to `services.logrotate.settings` instead
  before upgrading.
- `kibana` roles have been removed. Machines that use kibana should stay on
  22.05 for now and move to OpenSearch/OpenSearch Dashboards later.
- `graylog`/`loghost` roles have been removed. Machines that use these roles
  should stay on 22.05. We are working on a new logging stack on 22.11+ which
  is planned to be based on [Grafana Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/).

### Other notable changes

- PHP is now built in NTS (Non-Thread Safe) mode by default. For Apache and
  mod_php usage, we enable ZTS (Zend Thread Safe) mode. This has been a
  common practice for a long time in other distributions.
- The `postgresql15` role is now available.
- openssh was updated to version 9.1, disabling the generation of DSA keys
  when using `ssh-keygen -A` as they are insecure. Also, `SetEnv` directives
  in `ssh_config` and `sshd_config` are now first-match-wins.
- Python now defaults to 3.10, updated from 3.9. Python 3.11 is now stable.
- PHP now defaults to PHP 8.1, updated from 8.0.
- OpenSSL now defaults to OpenSSL 3, updated from 1.1.1.
- The `nodePackages` package set now defaults to the LTS release in the `nodejs`
  package again, instead of being pinned to `nodejs-14_x`. `nodejs-10_x` has
  been removed.
- The option `services.grafana.extraOptions` has been removed. For a detailed
  migration guide, please  review the release notes of NixOS 22.11.
- See the [release notes of NixOS 22.11](https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/stable/release-notes.html#sec-release-22.11-notable-changes)
  for more details.

### Significant package updates

- docker-compose: 1.29 -> 2.12
- git: 2.36 -> 2.38
- glibc: 2.34 -> 2.35
- haproxy: 2.5 -> 2.6
- k3s: 1.23 -> 1.25
- keycloak: 18 -> 20
- nix: 2.8 -> 2.11
- openssh: 9.0 -> 9.1
- postfix: 3.6.6 -> 3.7.3
- powerdns: 4.6 -> 4.7
- rabbitmq: 3.9 -> 3.10
- roundcube: 1.5 -> 1.6
- systemd: 250 -> 251
- telegraf: 1.22 -> 1.24
- varnish: 7.1 -> 7.2
- zlib: 1.2.12 -> 1.2.13
- zsh: 5.8 -> 5.9


## NixOS 22.05 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 21.11 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 21.05 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 20.09 platform

- nothing yet

## NixOS 15.09 platform

- nothing yet

## Gentoo platform

- nothing yet

## Documentation

- nothing yet

## Detailed Changes

% vim: set spell spelllang=en:
