:Publish Date: 2022-01-17

Release 2022_001 (2022-01-17)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 21.05]: Elasticsearch, httpd and postgresql will be restarted.
* [NixOS 21.05]: VMs will schedule a reboot to activate the changed kernel.


NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* PostgreSQL: add the *pg_stat_statements* extension to the shared libraries
  loaded by default so it can be activated by just running ``CREATE EXTENSION pg_stat_statements`` (#PL-130293).
* NFS: Fix a possible NFS server outage caused by adding new NFS clients.
  Instead of restarting, nfs services are now reloaded (#PL-130253).
* Matomo: update to 4.6.2 and various fixes (#PL-130234):

  * The GeoIP2 plugin works now (it's active by default). It failed previously because it couldn't write the database file.
  * Fix the periodic archive processing task. Setting ``services.matomo.hostname`` also changes the URL used for archive processing.
  * Don't require a local mysql database in the systemd unit as Matomo can be configured to use databases on other machines.

* Pull upstream NixOS changes that include security fixes and other updates (#PL-130280):

    * element-web: 1.9.2 -> 1.9.7
    * imagemagick: 7.1.0-13 -> 7.1.0-19
    * linux: 5.10.81 -> 5.10.88

* Devhost docs: Update the specific batou_ext reference to the currently most up-to-date version
  and make a note about checking for further updates when migrating.
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/126396/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

NixOS 15.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Fix SSL cert verification problem that rendered the platform update mechanism unusable.
  This will deployed as a hotfix directly to the VMs during the release window (#PL-130290).


Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2021_040/21.05...d03b2bfdedf18db4305064d7b31607581244d83e>`_,
  `upstream changes <https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/compare/c5f1ee982246d09ae7f119c13aafcce90286221d...932ec35ff8ac0fef5667ad2b0db4a009440255a9>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
