---
Publish Date: '2022-04-11'
---

# Release 2022_010 (2022-04-11)

## Impact

- \[NixOS 21.05\] Elasticsearch and Kibana will be restarted.
- \[NixOS 21.11\] Elasticsearch and Kibana will be restarted.

## NixOS 21.11 platform

- Elasticsearch/Kibana: use OSS packages by default to make sure we don't
  provide unfree functionality covered by the Elastic license (#PL-130528).
- Elasticsearch/Kibana: pin version for the 7.x roles to 7.10.2 which is
  the last version available with a free license. (#PL-130528).
- Gitlab: update 14.8.4 -> 14.8.5 (#PL-130540).
- k3s: add a simplified single-node role intended for running CI pipelines from
  Gitlab, for example (#PL-130465).
- Jitsi: add a Sensu check to find situations where Jitsi is unusable, for example when the
  videobridge isn't available (#PL-129940).
- Updated and extended MySQL role documentation.
- Production channel URL for this release: <https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/149883/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz>

## NixOS 21.05 platform

- Elasticsearch/Kibana: use OSS packages by default to make sure we don't
  provide unfree functionality covered by the Elastic license (#PL-130528).
- Elasticsearch/Kibana: pin version for the 7.x roles to 7.10.2 which is
  the last version available with a free license. (#PL-130528).
- Elasticsearch: use Java 11 which is recommended for the used ES versions and
  provides additional protection against log4shell exploits (#PL-130528)
- Sensu/Uchiwa: tune refresh and timeout settings to avoid spurious connection
  issues when the API is temporarily overloaded (#PL-130537).
- Updated and extended MySQL role documentation.
- Production channel URL for this release: <https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/149926/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz>

## Detailed Changes

- NixOS 21.11: [platform code](https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_009/21.11...bddd788f61745b5d9e55379114c9764417036222)
- NixOS 21.05: [platform code](https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_009/21.05...2c1f89a2ec6e00ce848cffa7b864da9ee4c062ca)

% vim: set spell spelllang=en:
