:Publish Date: 2022-05-02

Release 2022_012 (2022-05-02)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 21.11] mailserver: Postfix and dovecot will be restarted.
* [NixOS 21.11] matomo will be restarted.


NixOS 21.11 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* matomo: update to 4.9.1 (#PL-130574).
* mailserver: fix possible reload deadlock when SSL certificate and mail server
  configuration change at the same time. We have seen cases where postfix was
  down because of that problem (#PL-130204).
* mailserver: use relaxed/relaxed DKIM canonicalization algorithms to avoid
  invalid signatures when mail providers change whitespace in messages, for example.
* Be explicit about which unfree packages are allowed on our platform by default
  instead of generally allowing them. MongoDB under the SSPL license is allowed by
  default. Unfree Elastic packages (elasticsearch6/7, kibana6/7) can no longer be
  used on machines without explicitly allowing these packages there. There's a new
  option :code:`flyingcircus.allowUnfreePackageNames` to do that (#PL-130528).
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/155170/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Add flyingcircus.allowedUnfreePackageNames to make upgrades to 21.11 easier
  if unfree packages are used. Has no effect on 21.05. (#PL-130528).
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/155193/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 21.11: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_011/21.11...300cb13390e0a28910efd1fddf580aaaf6c3b429>`_
* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_011/21.05...b456db2509aaf7f93b91427cac80cc09ba2af9d0>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
