.. XXX update on release :Publish Date: YYYY-MM-DD

Release 2022_013 (unreleased)
-----------------------------

Impact
^^^^^^

* [NixOS 21.11] Most services will be restarted because of a core dependency
  change. Machines will schedule a reboot to activate the changed kernel.
* [NixOS 21.05] Networking services will be restarted and connectivity may be
  down for a short period of time.

NixOS 21.11 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* fc-agent: restructured fc-manage and fc-maintenance commands, along with
  improvements to command output and logging: ``fc-manage`` has new sub commands
  ``update-enc`` and ``switch``. They cover the same functionality as the old
  (``-b -c -e``) commands which are still present. Service users now may sudo
  run ``fc-maintenance`` ``list``/``show``/``delete`` to look at and delete
  maintenance requests (#PL-130441).
* Fix an Apache FPM configuration issue: FPM pools would get confused and
  keepalive connections could block workers indefinitely. Disable FPM proxy
  connection reuse (#PL-130609).
* Gitlab: don't overwrite existing certificates for the container registry anymore.
* Jitsi: update all packages to latest stable versions
  (jitsi-meet-2.0.7210, 2022-04-18) (#PL-130591).
* Pull upstream NixOS changes that include security fixes and other
  updates (#PL-130595, #PL-130610):

    * cifs-utils: fix information disclosure in logger (CVE-2022-29869)
    * cifs-utils: patch buffer-overflow in ip param handling (CVE-2022-27239)
    * docker: 20.10.13 -> 20.10.14
    * element-web: 1.10.10 -> 1.10.11
    * git: 2.33.1 -> 2.33.3 (CVE-2022-24765)
    * gitlab: 14.9.2 -> 14.9.4
    * grafana: 8.4.6 -> 8.4.7
    * gzip: 1.11 -> 1.12 (CVE-2022-1271)
    * imagemagick: 7.1.0-26 -> 7.1.0-31
    * libarchive: add patches for CVE-2022-26280, OSS Fuzz issue 38764
    * libtiff: add patches for multiple CVEs (CVE-2022-0891, CVE-2022-0865, CVE-2022-0924, CVE-2022-0907, CVE-2022-0909, CVE-2022-0908)
    * linux: 5.10.111 -> 5.10.113
    * matrix-synapse: 1.56.0 -> 1.57.0
    * nginxStable: add patch for CVE-2021-3618
    * openjdk: 11.0.12+7 -> 11.0.15.+10
    * openjdk: 17.0.1+12 -> 17.0.3.+7
    * python310: 3.10.3 -> 3.10.4
    * python39: 3.9.11 -> 3.9.12
    * ruby_2_7: 2.7.5 -> 2.7.6 (CVE-2022-28739)
    * ruby_3_0: 3.0.3 -> 3.0.4 (CVE-2022-28738, CVE-2022-28739)

* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/157876/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

NixOS 21.05 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Port Qemu/KVM server role to NixOS (#PL-127635).
* Nginx: the number of worker processes is determined by the number of CPU as
  before but limited to 12 now. The number is configurable via the new option
  ``flyingcircus.services.nginx.workerProcesses`` (#PL-127635).
* Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/158017/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz


NixOS 20.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


NixOS 15.09 platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Gentoo platform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* nothing yet


Detailed Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* NixOS 21.11: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_012/21.11...bc0c2218d718f8a04fc1846d53efe13789faf1ea>`_,
  `upstream changes <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/nixpkgs/compare/1f05f61bc9cb8b49b86780749d9cca46308688a5...7336576854f45032a04636b1d8fa86db5c6ba7a0>`_
* NixOS 21.05: `platform code <https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_012/21.05...5b870e586a9a5542f8f8878ccc3fe5e3d78787cd>`_

.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
