---
Publish Date: '2022-10-18'
---

# Release 2022_025 (2022-10-18)

## Impact

- \[NixOS 22.05\] Jitsi will be restarted and conferences will be interrupted
   for a short period of time.

## NixOS 22.05 platform

- mailserver: role now works in devhost environments and in other situations
  where the machine has no FE interface (#PL-130785).
- jitsi: update all packages to latest stable release (#PL-130883).
- fc-manage: add `--show-trace` option to show detailed stack traces for Nix
  errors. Stack traces are disabled by default now because they tend to be
  very long and don't provide helpful information for common error classes
  (#PL-130985).
- Enable the experimental `nix` command which, for example provides `nix
  search` to search for packages. This change also enables Nix flakes, which
  are still experimental but required to make proper use of `nix search`, for
  example `nix search nixpkgs rich-cli`. Note that this doesn't search for
  the versions from the Flying Circus platform but the newest available
  package from unstable so versions and available packages may differ.
  (#PL-130985).
- Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/196085/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

## NixOS 21.05 platform

- (internal) Fix booting 15.09 VMs. The kernel on these VMs is too old to
  mount XFS file systems with the `reflink` feature enabled which is the
  default on our NixOS KVM hosts now. /tmp is created on every boot so 15.09
  VMs didn't boot anymore. This change disables `reflink` until all 15.09 VMs
  are gone (#PL-130977).
- (internal) Provide the Ceph Luminuous update using a feature-flag mechanism (#PL-130693).
- (internal) Add used disk space telemetry for backup server data volumes (#PL-130682).
- (internal) Disable swap on physical machines (#PL-130935).

  Over time we noticed that swap does not contribute any tangible benefits and
  has even caused stability problems. A recent KVM crash incident even
  indicated that swap usage(even though there was enough free memory on the
  host) caused the crash. As large physical host memory (512G and more) has
  no real reason to leverage a few GiB of swap and VMs and other
  infrastructure workloads will be impacted in non-obvious ways when swap is
  involved, we decided to retire swap as a concept completely in the future
- Production channel URL for this release: https://hydra.flyingcircus.io/build/195652/download/1/nixexprs.tar.xz

## Detailed Changes

- NixOS 22.05: [platform code](https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_024/22.05...6bd5c01b9bc0fdc0a88bbc78f62bf6e8c6cd67a6).
- NixOS 21.05: [platform code](https://github.com/flyingcircusio/fc-nixos/compare/fc/r2022_022/21.05...286cb214e56110ad33a05cc726a22c8dff08589a).


% vim: set spell spelllang=en:
